Add documentation about how to add new pages to your client side (#25)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/advanced/theme/route-dispatcher.md

---
id: route-dispatcher
title: Handle dynamic URLs with the Dispatcher
---

> In some cases, you will need a deeper customization of URLs than what you can do in the [Add a new page guide](../../essentials/add-a-page-client-side). For instance, for some SEO reasons, you may prefer to have `/my-product` instead of `/product/my-product-slug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you will need more control over URLs formats than what we introduced in the [Add a new page guide](../../essentials/add-a-page-client-side). For instance, you may prefer to have `/my-product` instead of `/product/my-product-slug` for SEO reasons.
```

> That is what the Dispatcher is for in Front-Commerce, and what we will cover in this documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is what Front-Commerce’s Dispatcher is responsible for, and what we will cover in this documentation.
```

## What is the goal of the Dispatcher?

The dispatcher is actually a component within Front-Commerce that will be displayed in case no other route was found. Its goal will be to ask the server (by using the `matchUrls` query in your GraphQL Schema) what kind of page is associated with the current URL and will display the page's component accordingly.

> <figure>

Reviewer: It would be great to have a sentence here to introduce the schema.

Proposal: « Below is a flowchart illustrating the URL resolution logic »

![Diagram explaining how an URL is displayed](./assets/dispatcher.svg)
</figure>

If you come from a Magento background, this is the concept behind [URL Rewrites](https://docs.magento.com/m2/ce/user_guide/marketing/url-rewrite.html).

> In the core of Front-Commerce, the association between an URL and a page is already done for things like Products, Categories, CMS pages… But depending on your own site, you might need to add new ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Front-Commerce’s core integrations (such as Magento2), the association between a URL and a page is already implemented for entities like Products, Categories, CMS pages… But depending on your own site, you might need to add new ones.
```

## Support the new URLs in the `matchUrls`

<blockquote class="info">
**Magento:** If the url you are trying to add are managed by Magento, you don't need any of this. You should instead [add an url rewrite directly in your backend](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/cloud/configure/import-url-rewrites.html), since the mechanism already exists in the Magento module of Front-Commerce.
</blockquote>

The goal here will be [to override the resolver](/docs/reference/graphql-module-definition.html#resolvers-optional) of `matchUrls` in order to add your own URLs.

1. Create a custom GraphQL module that will add new `resolvers` to your GraphQL Schema See [Create a new GraphQL module](/docs/essentials/extend-the-graphql-schema.html) for more details.
2. Create a loader that will match a URL string with an Entity (the object returned below):
```js
const MyModuleUrlLoader = makeDataLoader => () => {
  return {
    load: url => {
      if (url === "my-dynamic-custom-url") {
        return {
          // The url that you are currently matching
          url: "my-dynamic-custom-url",
          // The type of entity you are willing to
          // display for this URL

>           type: "pageType",

Reviewer: For more consistency, I suggest we use `myPageType` instead in the whole page.

It makes more explicit that this is an example and not an existing type or something like that.

This object has page types as keys (in our case `pageType`), and a render function as values that will tell the application what to render for a specific key (in our case, it renders `MyCustomPage`). This will give you something like this:

```js
//` my-module/web/moduleRoutes.js`
import React from "react";
import MyCustomPage from "theme/pages/MyCustomPage";

export const dispatchedRoutes = {
  pageType: props => <MyCustomPage id={props.matched.identifier} />
};

// you can still export your static routes here
// export default () => [
//   <Route ... />
// ];
```

In the props passed to a render function (L6), you will have access to a `matched` property that is in fact the object returned by your `matchUrls` GraphQL query.

Once you've created your file, you can refresh your application
(`npm run start`), and you should see your new route if you go
to the `/my-dynamic-custom-url` URL. It will display `MyCustomPage` component.

> And this is it! From now on, any URL that is matched to a particular `type` in your `matchUrls` query, will now be displayed with the render function you defined in your `dispatchedRoutes` export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And this is it! From now on, any URL that is matched to a particular `type` in your `matchUrls` query, will now be displayed with the render function defined in your `dispatchedRoutes` export under the matching key. Otherwise, a 404 page will still be displayed to the user.
```
